---
published: true
title: Mirror's Edge Catalyst pls
layout: post
---
Well I'm having lunch now at 3PM with the exciting new Mirror's Edge reboot minimized on my PC - which hopefully isn't going to turn into a rage quit. I'm aware that I'm really bad at shooters and action games, the kind of guy who does a lot of retries at easy difficulty, but seriously? Mission Fly Trap, the combat section, is an open humiliation to average players not reaching a certain skill level.

So here's my rant. I'm not going to touch on the open world design that is there only to follow the fad, or the skill point system that charges you a chunk of in game progress to unlock a move you can easily pull off right at the beginning of the original game, or even the online element that I never appreciate; because I like the core gameplay concept of the original and thought it's more or less unchanged - well, not really as this stupid combat goes. The whole point of the game is to breach the enemy lockdown with *speed* and *parkour*, not holding off a ton of range enemies with melee attacks. Since when is any combat sequence inevitable? Really game? You expect me to kick some asses (literally) with shockers and machine guns? Because it makes a lot of sense.

The most annoying thing about this little section is that enemies come in WAVES. Yes. At least 4 or 5. You know it's bad level design when you begin to see repetitions. The pace and difficulty of a game should be carefully designed with good game mechanics, not by shortening the time window to react, flooding the player with enemies and imposing harsh punishments for inputs not so perfect as a robot, and to top it off, REPEATEDLY. I've got stuck in a lot of games before and occasionally I got so frustrated by failing a fairly long tricky section that I'd wish there's a savepoint right in the middle, but surviving waves of enemies is definitely the worst of experience of this kind and really makes anyone hate a game.

So there's that. I knew it's quite unlikely for a super successful game to go on sales this soon, so a 33% off a month after release probably gives away the mediocrity of this game already. Still I was eager to try out this game because I had a lot of fun playing the original. It's such a shame to see anticipated game sequels not live up to the hype and disappoint a ton of fans with all the false hopes. Well, OK, this game is chronologically a reboot rather than a sequel, but that doesn't help at all - just look at Need for Speed!